CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Reporting a Bug/Feature/Enhancement
In order to help out with bug reports please make sure you include the following:
- Backbone Relational Version
- Backbone Version
- Underscore Version

It is very important to provide a meaningful description with your bug reports/feature requests. A good format for these descriptions will include the following:

1. The problem you are facing (in as much detail as is necessary to describe the problem to someone who doesn't know anything about the system you're building)
    - It is *extremely* helpful to make a failing test case or JSFiddle example that covers your use case. Below you can find a template JSFiddle with the Jasmine test suite and Backbone relational `0.10.0` setup (feel free to fork this!):
        - http://jsfiddle.net/4223kp5e/1/
2. A summary of the proposed solution
3. A description of how this solution solves the problem, in more detail than item #2
4. Any additional discussion on possible problems this might introduce, questions that you have related to the changes, etc.

# Submitting a Pull Request
Before you submit your Pull Request ensure the following things are true for your branch:
1. Your additions match the same coding style defined in our linter rules and EditorConfig rules
    - How to setup [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/#download)
    - How to setup [ESLint](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/integrations)
2. Your changes are branched off of `master`
3. You have added a test case for your changes or updated an existing test case
4. All test cases are passing

# Running Unit Tests
You can run tests using PhantomJS (headless) or a web browser (Chrome)
- To run headless tests:
    1. Run `npm test`
- To run tests in a browser:
    1. Run `karma start --single-run`
    2. Open Chrome and connect to the url it outputs

Commit message:

Lodash 4 compatibility (#585)
Resolves #561. Summary of changes:

 - It is now possible to run the entire test suite with Lodash instead of Underscore by passing the `--lodash` option to `karma start`. Still runs with Underscore by default. (Tip for Yarn users: you can just do `yarn test --lodash`).
 - Feature detection of `_.any` is used to determine whether the `_` factory argument is Underscore or Lodash. In the latter case, some aliases are created on `_` in order to keep the code changes to a minimum.
 - Everywhere a third `context` argument was passed to functions like `_.each` and `_.map`, `_.bind` is now used instead.
 - Travis build runs both the Underscore variant and the Lodash variant of the test suite (and both pass).
 - Travis config updated to use Node version 8 instead of 4, in order to resolve compatibility issues with the force-updated `npm` command line program.
 - `index.html` updated to reflect that Lodash works, too.

Note on the `CONTRIBUTING.md` and the `.editorconfig`: these files tell me that JavaScript files should be two-space indented, but the JavaScript files I edited were already tab-indented. I decided to go with the existing practice.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Reporting a Bug/Feature/Enhancement
In order to help out with bug reports please make sure you include the following:
- Backbone Relational Version
- Backbone Version
- Underscore Version

It is very important to provide a meaningful description with your bug reports/feature requests. A good format for these descriptions will include the following:

1. The problem you are facing (in as much detail as is necessary to describe the problem to someone who doesn't know anything about the system you're building)
    - It is *extremely* helpful to make a failing test case or JSFiddle example that covers your use case. Below you can find a template JSFiddle with the Jasmine test suite and Backbone relational `0.10.0` setup (feel free to fork this!):
        - http://jsfiddle.net/4223kp5e/1/
2. A summary of the proposed solution
3. A description of how this solution solves the problem, in more detail than item #2
4. Any additional discussion on possible problems this might introduce, questions that you have related to the changes, etc.

# Submitting a Pull Request
Before you submit your Pull Request ensure the following things are true for your branch:
1. Your additions match the same coding style defined in our linter rules and EditorConfig rules
    - How to setup [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/#download)
    - How to setup [ESLint](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/integrations)
2. Your changes are branched off of `master`
3. You have added a test case for your changes or updated an existing test case
4. All test cases are passing, both with Underscore and Lodash

# Running Unit Tests
You can run tests using PhantomJS (headless) or a web browser (Chrome)
- To run headless tests:
    1. Run `npm test`
- To run tests in a browser:
    1. Run `karma start --single-run`
    2. Open Chrome and connect to the url it outputs

You can test with Lodash instead of Underscore by passing the `--lodash` option to `karma start` or `yarn test`.
